>> Scott Moss: What can
I create with Nodejs?
Pretty much anything a scripting and
server language like Python or
Ruby can, but with JavaScript.
Basically, pretty much anything
they can do, JavaScript can do.
But again, there will be trade-offs like
we just talked about of how it works, and
how efficient it might be, and what it's
better at and what it's not good at?
But, it can do pretty much
anything those run times can do.
So, things like tooling,
that includes building frameworks,
like have you heard of Webpack or Gulp or
anything like that, those types of things.
Automatons which also again
are like Gulp and Webpack or
like I want to automate this deployment,
or push this to get, or version this.
Node is just so amazing at automations.
I usually, so I collect sneakers, and when
sneakers would launch on certain websites,
I would just like
literally an hour before,
I would just build a script
to just go buy them for me.
So I don't have to do it and
no like takes like an hour just go on the
website like okay, here's what it looks
like and then I'll just crawl it in
node to buy the sneakers for me.
Like I could not have
done that without note.
So it's just like you can pretty much
build any type of automation you can
think of so, it's pretty awesome.
So it's great for tooling.
It is really great for
API that I would say.
It's in my opinion probably like, what
are the best run times for creating APIs.
Go, Go is pretty good too.
But I would say Node is just
more excepting than Go for
like creating any type of API.
So this includes like REST APIs
GraphQL APIs, if you use GraphQL.
Realtime APIs are like web sockets,
especially Realtime APIs, and
that's just because Node enables high
concurrency because of its event loop
architecture and
we'll dive into that a little more.
But it's basically
the same as the browser,
it's just single threaded event based.
So it's really great for that because
it can handle so many requests at once.
CDNs, this is kind of new, and I wasn't
sure if I wanted to put this here yet
because this is a new concept that's
coming soon to an app near you.
But basically a CDN, this is like
a network of computers, right?
Around some space, whether it's the world
or a nation, or a consonant whatever,
it's a network of computers, and
you host your assets on that network.
So therefore those assets are delivered
to your customers as fast as possible.
So if I'm making a request from Minnesota
and there's a server in Minnesota,
I will get my image from
this server in Minnesota,
versus going all the way to Oregon and
Virginia.
So, that is what a CDN is and
traditionally that has been built on
some crazy architecture that
some low level language, but
now you can do that in JavaScript.
You can build a CDN in JavaScript now and
it's like pretty crazy,
because it is life changing.
So, that right there is another example
of what you can do in JavaScript and
things I want to talk about that,
I'm willing to go deep on that later
because that right there is life changing.
You can do some crazy stuff with
that that you couldn't do before.
Sharable libraries, so again I said
the community is pretty awesome.
And what makes the community awesome is
that people can create these libraries and
modules and then share them with people.
But also that can be pretty scary.
[LAUGH] But that's what makes it
pretty awesome like, okay, cool.
I'm gonna build this,
my tenth REST API and I'm so
sick of having to rebuild it
from scratch every single time.
Then like, okay cool, just go download
this one that everybody uses and
has great documentation.
And you're good to go and
then somebody's supporting it.
And I've never seen so many open-source
developers just quit their job and
make money off open-source,
then before Node.
It just wasn't a thing, you couldn't make
money off open-source before Node came,
it was just, you did open-source
on the side, or either consulting.
You would create Ruby on Rails, and
then you would go consult for it.
But no, these people just literally
fix issues all day on open-source
that they created, and they make money.
And that's because so
many people use these things.
The community is reliant on these packages
that people can just make money off of
the code that they create for free.
And its all donation based,
it's like may people just give then money,
like, here you go take this money,
so it's pretty legit.
The desktop applications, so there is like
three of four different runtimes that
are like subsets of Node that you can
use to create desktop applications.
So Electron.
>> Scott Moss: I can't even think of
the names of the other ones there are so
many of them.
SWJS, but they enable you to
create native desktop applications
with web technologies and it's all powered
by Node, which is pretty fantastic.
So again you don't have
to use cocoa pods and
like all this stuff to build your
Mac app or your Windows app.
You can just write it once
in JavaScript and node and
deploy it to like all operating
systems which is pretty legit.
>> Scott Moss: IOT, this is really big so
a lot of IOT devices.
There is so many frameworks for IOT
devices that you can use JavaScript on.
Johnny five is one of the best ones.
Yeah, there is a course for that, yeah.
So that's a really good one,
that's the one I use,
real legit raspberry pie
is great with JavaScript.
There is so
many things you can do with node and
IOT it's ridiculous and
you can pre, it's the same thing.
Because it is Node,
it's gonna work the same on your
machine that it is gonna be on IOT.
So you can pretty make whatever you
want here and get away with it.
In fact, before all this IOT stuff
was happening, me and my son,
we actually had a 3D printer and
we printed out.
This box that would go on a wall,
and all it would do,
it would just tell us if a door or a
window was open in Morgan Freeman's voice.
[LAUGH] We made that with just Nodejs and
it took us two weeks.
And then a week later they came
out with I was like [SOUND], okay.
>> Speaker 2: What did Morgan Freeman say?
>> Scott Moss: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: The door is open.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
like, the door is opened.
The front door is closed.
We did that to the best of our ability.
We had, like, we went on Fiverr and
found somebody who imitated his voice.
[LAUGH] I sent Adam to hit record.
We paid him $5.00 for it.
It was pretty cool.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Scott Moss: [LAUGH] and we did that.
It was really cool, we designed it,
we put lights on it and everything and
it was all powered by Node.
So it was an awesome project.
Yeah, pretty much anything because
Node is on everything now.
It literally is on everything.
You can make your microwave powered by
Nodejs if you want to and build an app for
it if you need to.
Mark's got this Twitter that he follows
that he sends me to, it's pretty funny.
But they do that a lot.
So yeah,
you can pretty much make anything.
So, if you can convince your company to
use Node then it would enable them to do
all sorts of things.
And it would just make you look like a
badass, because you'd be doing all of it.
So yeah, highly recommend doing that.
Any other questions,
any other ideas you might have had?
Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: So, you're not looking at
other server-side languages, like PHP and
Python.
A lot of libraries are core,
you don't really need to
depend on a lot of libraries.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: What scares me sometimes is
a billion packages that came installed,
just on load step, right?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: How reliable
is that especially in large scale
production of applications?
I mean do companies really use those
dependencies or do they write their own?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so two parts of
that question and one part is, so
the internal modules.
So Node does have internal modules that
people use, some are like you just cannot
live without, and you're gonna
really work with some of those.
But it definitely doesn't get you
far right eventually you need to
do something else.
So you do have to rely on a community and
you're right, it is pretty scary and
to answer that like how reliable is it?
It depends on who made it because there's
like node isn't doing anything to check.
There's code to make sure
it's not malicious, so
it will be up to you in the community.
So there's just some things and
I'll show you how to figure
out what modules to download.
There's just some steps that you
have to go through to make sure that
you're not getting something that's bad.
And that's kind of why I wasn't able to
just go look at source code all the time.
So I'm pretty sure, like,
this is happening, this is happening.
But at the end of the day,
what I found out is that,
if there's tons of people in
the community using something.
And there's a healthy GitHub repo for
this project, there's tons of issues that
are being closed, there's been activity in
the last week, there's really good stars,
there's really good companies using it,
chances are it's pretty legit.
But if you're downloading something
from three years ago that was created by
someone who deleted their GitHub
account and it's like nothing on there,
like probably not.
So it really depends on like,
it's a case by case basis, and
big companies do use this.
I've worked with huge companies, like
some of the top companies in the world,
and yeah they'll just get on there and
NPM install stuff.
Where as other companies won't,
other companies won't do that and
they have to go through
every single module.
To check to make sure it's
got the right license on it,
they're not competing and stuff like that.
But at the end of the day, everybody
seems to be open to the idea of exploring
modules created by
the community in some way.
And like I said, they might have some
process in how they actually get in their
app, but yeah, it's a pretty common thing.
I haven't worked with or
seen a company that,
only makes their own things ever,
I haven't seen it.
I could imagine that sucking really bad,
so yeah.
Any other questions?
>> Scott Moss: We got one, Daniel?
>> Speaker 5: Will a company sort of
maybe fork, if they're like, okay,
this works to now.
I did npm install, it worked now.
But I don't want to be responsible for
whatever weird changes this person
is gonna do to this library.
I'm gonna fork it and now we're just gonna
have our own copy of like express or
whatever the case may be.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, there's many
ways to do that, so forking is one.
So people will fork it
when not only do they want
to not have future changes and bugs.
But because they wanna add
additions to themselves, so
that's when you would fork it.
But if you just want to be
excluded from any future changes,
then the package manager would
actually handle that for you.
You would just tell the package manager,
don't download any other versions,
lock it to this version.
And there's a thousand
ways to lock a version.
So yeah, that really pays,
I find myself forking stuff all the time.
In fact I'm at the point now of when I go
create a new module I almost don't need to
start it from scratch.
I'll go find something that already like
started it and like nobody finished it.
And I'll be like this person started and
kind of gave up on it.
So I'm gonna take what they had and
I'm gonna finish it or
I'll take the idea that they had and
I'm gonna finish it.
So I'll do that a lot to get things going
so yeah that is a very, very common thing.
In fact, that's what happened to node.
Somebody forked node,
and it was a big deal.
Yeah, we can talk about that later,
but yeah.
Luckily because of all that
drama node is even better now.
But before that it was like [SOUND].
Now it's like, okay, it's amazing.
And that's because somebody pushed their
hand and forked it and scared everybody.
So that was pretty awesome.